# Scouting

The core feature of this app is the "Moneyball Scouting" feature. In the past, to play FM according to a moneyball strategy, the user had to manually export data and place it in an Excel spreadsheet, format the data, etc. The primary aim of this tool is to minimize the need for that.

This is accomplished by the "Moneyball Scouting" feature. The user either uploads a data file (.csv format) or allows the app to read the data from their PC's memory - The option is presented since not everyone may want the app to read their data (and also I'm not sure reading data from memory is an achievable feature at this stage of development). The app then analyzes the players it finds, and ranks their suitability for each position. Each position will have several "archetypes" that the player is then scored against. The analysis will contain both an absolute score, and a value-adjusted score - The goal of moneyball is value, after all. Since there is both an in-possession archetype and an out-of-possession archetype, the players total score will be weighted as 75% in-possession, 25% out-of-possession - But that is customisable by the user.

When the user accesses the moneyball tab, they are presented with 2 options - To browse the full database, or to search for a specific role.

The database view presents a large table, similar to what you would find in the Football Manager game itself, but with colour-coded percentile scores for each metric. If the user clicks a player's row entry, they are taken to that players "Player Profile", where the metrics seen in the database view are expanded upon. The database view will show every player in the game.

When searching for a specific role, the app will display a football pitch, with the user's defined "archetype" shown in the slot for each position ie. they might want a "creative winger" in the AML position, but a "goalscoring inside forward" in the AMR position. These preferences have been pre-determined by the player in the "My Squad" tab. If no roles have been selected, some defaults are shown. When the user then clicks a role, the app will search the loaded database for players that score well for that archetype and position, and show an unranked list in a table, but with a top 3 suggested signings in a "hero section" above the table, where the top 3 will be ranked like a podium. The table will contain player information and key metrics for that archetype, where the user can sort and analyze players more in depth. The user also has the ability to add or remove (or just hide) specific metrics from the table view, and change the weighting that determines the top 3 suggested signings. However, it is encouraged that this is accomplished by fine-tuning your archetypes instead. When using the scouting feature in this way, the app will limit the results to only players who have played more than 1000 minutes in the past season, and players who play in leagues in and around that of the player (and thus might be a realistic signing). The exact boundaries for these can be tweaked by the user.
